# Revive-AI
Revive AI is an image processing software that can help you revive your old and distorted images using state of the art AI technologies.

Approach 

1. Dataset Preparation : Large Scale Dataset For Image Restoration(LSDIR Dataset) is used for this software. The dataset provided 85K images of very high resolution and thier low resolution counterparts were derived using the technique of bicubic interpolation. The low resolution images were generated in two phases.
Phase 1 : Bicubic Interpolation by a factor of 2
Phase 2 : Bicubic Interpolation by a factor of 4

3. Model Preperation : The research and testing done prior made it possible to choose two models for this task.
Model 1 : Super Resolution Convolutional Neural Networks (SRCNN). A three layer CNN which help to map low resolution images to thier high resolution counter parts.
Model 2 : Very Deep Super Resolution Convolutional Neural Networks (VDSRCNN). A deep CNN netwrok having around 20 Layers and trains on the residual of each layer in order to minimize loss.

4. Model Training : Training such a computer vision model was a tideous task as the network chosen was very dense and the input data of 85K images was quite large for a personal computer to train. CPU and GPU resources were needed to be managed very efficiently inorder to complete the model training smoothly. A high quality codebase was prepared seperately, use of which was only to manage resources (CPU and GPU) in order to boost up the training of the model. Along with Batch GD provided by tensorflow, some manual batching was done prior to feeding the data to the training pipeline, in order to save resources.
All the code used for these resource management task can be accessed in the Utilities.ipynb file. 

Both the models were trained on two input sizes : (256x256x3) and (512x512x3).
This led to generation of 4 models, 2 SRCNN and 2 VDSRCNN wach for two image sizes.

5. Model evaluation : Model was trained with a loss function of MSE to minimize the MSE between the pixel values and a custom metric named Peak-Signal-To-Noise-Ratio(PSNR) was also prepared in order to evaluate the quality of images generated by our model.

SRCNN Models were seen to improve PSNR by 1db-1.5db as compared to interpolation techniques.
VDSRCNN Models were seen to improve PSNR by 2db-2.5db as compared to interpolation techniques.

6. Inference Pipepline : The inference pipline is designed in such a way so as to choose the appropriate model for each input image dynamically which is based on the factors like input image actual size and amount of reshaping required so as to fit the nearest model. 

7. Deployment : The software is deployed as a windows application as of now and is available to download from the github repository mentioned below.


HOW TO TRY ? 

Download the Revive-AI.exe file and install the windows application.

